I have a really a bad feeling about something. There is this girl on a discord server, J. Maybe I should call her a woman instead, but she is pretty close to my age. Apparently she is traumatised by something terrible happening to her dear friend. I think he got murdered. Okay, now for context, I was a bit smitten on her. Because when I was most insecure, she had given me attention and cared for me. But my attitude towards her was like, to be honest like I wanted her to be mine or some bs. I craved her attention, I was desperate for it. Of course I didn't show it much, I even avoided her sometimes, even when she was friendly. Now I hear of this tragedy and I felt sad, so I texted her about it, telling her she could talk to me. But I was immature about it. I think. I could be overthinking. I left a terrible joke at the end. Now I am bursting with fear that I may have disrespected her trust in me.
This is my fault, and it has long been many of my faults. For some reason I have this lack of respect somewhere in me towards her. I am so sorry J. Forgive me. I hate that I see you like a resource, something I want. I am terrible for this. She is going through terrible pain, I wish I could be someone actually beneficial to her and ask for nothing from her. Just as she has always only given to me. I am so sorry. You deserve only respectful and selfless friends like the person you are. I hope you have a special place in the world, like if there is a God I hope he takes care of you well.

I resolve to change my attitude. I will be respectful and caring towards her, like she is my sister. Only love. Pure and platonic. I will help when I can, and I will ask for nothing, look for nothing back. I want her to get everything she deserves. And she deserves to have a nice life, without meaningless suffering. Godspeed, J.