I journaled in The Mouthfuls server in discord today, so gonna copy paste it here.


Okay I haven't journalled here in a long time. PArtly because I thought I was starting to repeat myself. But I have actually learned a lot now that maybe I should have posted here. Anyways, gonna move on to the latest stuff tho
[6:38 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: I do not want to be sorry, to be sorry. I don't want to put aside any time to feel an emotion. When an emotion comes, I wanna feel it and express it sure, as it comes. But I don't want to consciously stop doing other things to feel it. Don't wanna take special time to feel sorry, feel regret, to dream, to love, or anything like that (edited)
[6:39 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: I want to feel all of those things unconsciously and spontaneously only.
[6:40 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: Meanwhile, let me be just doing stuff
[6:43 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: I want to embody action so much
[6:43 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: I would like to express my emotions by action
[6:43 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: Show I am sorry, by doing something
[6:43 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: Show I love by doing something
[6:44 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: Show I regret it by doing something
[6:44 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: This doesn't come naturally to me, while just literally saying stuff comes very naturally to me
[6:46 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: But no matter how sincerely I say some things, it appears sometimes the deepness of how much I mean it, is lost on people. Action, I feel, is a much more effective communicator. (edited)
[6:48 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: People believe action
[6:49 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: I guess they can't help it, since it literally affects the real world
[6:49 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: While words can be just sparks that appear and disappear in the vacuum of your mind
[6:52 AM] 

 ---
[6:52 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: Also I think I got a little crack on a problem I had been trying to solve for years
[6:54 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: So, I have been chasing an ideal pretty much all my life. Trying to be someone else. And I have seen both sides of the argument.

"You can't be but who you are"
"You can be so much more"

My feeling was I wanna be the best version of me.
[6:56 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: Now the problem is there are things, changing which, requires me to not be me.  Changes that feel really different from who I am.
[6:58 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: And the best version I can imagine has some of these changes. So that's the problem, should I just settle for being me? And give up on that imaginary version of me. Or should I strive stubbornly, hoping that somehow I will find a way (to not be me)? (edited)
[7:00 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: My realization recently,
(I don't know if I just discovered this, but more likely building on previous similar insight)
was that trying to BE anything than what I am is a dead end.
[7:03 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: Because the Being is like the end result of the process. And what I mean by being or "I am this...or that..."  is the identity I have formed of myself over the years. It's like an afterimage of everything I have ever done. The real me? is unfathomable, full of potential, and who knows what it is. I have surprised myself many many times.
[7:03 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: I can be probably be many things I can't even imagine.
[7:06 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: So when I chase an Ideal, and try to "be" that person, I should focus on what actions or accomplishments make that Ideal or identity, instead of trying to just BE someone else. It's like the classic question "What would Jesus do?", that is the right approach (if your ideal is Jesus).
[7:07 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: Just doing what the Ideal would do is how I will change into the ideal. I don't need to try and be anyone else. And before I know it, someone will take a picture of my actions and be like "Hey, he is that ideal"
[7:09 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: And thus I reconcile the two ideas:
"You can't be but who you are"
     and
"You can be so much more"
[7:12 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: And now I just need the courage and recklessness, and the right amount of "screw the consequences, and screw the temptations" required to do what the Ideal would do. (edited)
[7:15 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: Oh I can see why religions ask you to LOVE God. Loving the Ideal is probably very helpful for this. (edited)
[7:24 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: Hmm...worshiping... I have always failed to satisfactorily understand the word "worship", although I have seen it and felt it. Maybe there is clue about that here
[7:27 AM] 
OP
 Necryl: And the doing what your Ideal would do is also very much like the "Fake it till you make it" that Shivam talks about. I always felt an aversion to that idea because of the word "fake". But hey, if I look at it this way, there is no faking.