As always, I am shooting myself in the foot. But following the plan. Not doing what needs to be done. But hey, I did some more "research"! I am not proud of knowingly indulging in the same pattern again. But well, here goes: 

I think there main thing I need to do right now do a complete dopamine detox, 24x7. No YouTube, porn, or anything like that.
And then I need to start a timetable again. It has been the effective method so far for me. I stopped using it, because I felt I becoming an empty shell, mindlessly trying to follow the timetable. But it's alright, I will keep an eye on myself and I think I just need to re create the timetable every now and then. Rearrange the schedule. 
Also, in terms of creating that framework to how to live a life, I realised now that there never was a one size fits all solution to this, as obvious as that is, I thought otherwise for many years, at least I hoped that way. But different people are at different places in life, and have different pathways to come to that light. But maybe we can still define what that light is. And then framework will have to be something that empowers individuals to find their path to the light, and enable society to be a platform for these individuals to streamline their journey. So this would mean a different structure, a different curriculum, maybe a different story for each type of person. And maybe enable them to figure out their own story and structure to orient themselves to the light.
So I just figure out the definition of the light. And how I can enable everyone to discover the light for themselves. 
Big words huh, for someone stuck in life, but ok. 

Another thing I learned today, is often the best strategy is to take what you can get. Often the best possible scenario is not the best option if it's risky. Many times taking the guaranteed win is the best option instead of gambling. Of course once you have built up enough security, you can experiment?