Yesterday, when coming from an errand for my job, I decided to hop into a church because it has been a while, and it was on the way home. So I went in and they had perpetual adoration, so I sat before Him. And I remembered my childhood days when I used to believe so much and pray so much. I felt that presence in the host as I used to as a child: "Jesus". And it blew away everything I was worried about, inate racism, my lust, everything. I realised that most of my problems go away in his presence. As long as I am looking at him, skin colours don't matter. As long as I look at him, sexuality didn't matter. As long as I was looking at him all these things that I was struggling to manage, that made me feel like I am not up to mark, just disappeared. All there was was God and me. His pure, unfathomable love, power and mercy made everything go away. As long as I felt that presence I could look at another human and see no skin or sex but just a fellow child of God. And I realised this is what I have been missing. I have been trying to rediscover it or reinvent it outside Christianity, but this is what I seek. I offered myself to Jesus. I surrendered everything I am. I asked for the holy spirit and prayed for guidance and left. I still don't believe that God might exist as a person outside our psychology. I don't really know, either way. But I know he does exist as a person in my mind, maybe call it a spiritual aspect of human experience. And maybe God exists as some pattern in the universe that we perceive as God.
I also felt grateful for the time I spent away from God and Christianity, when I basically tried to replace him. Because when I was a Christian, I was very dependent on God for everything, and I myself was weak. Of course, we humans are weak, but I wasn't fulfilling my potential. But this time away from all that, made me grow up. It made me stronger. And that is good. Now I realise we should always try to be individually as strong as possible instead of always being God's baby. And then we must dedicate all that strength and capability for the coming about of God's kingdom. 
So yesterday I went straight to sleep after coming home, because I was determined to work hard for God's kingdom. I wanted to sleep, wake up at midnight and then get to work.
But today I woke up at 6am and now I have to go to my job. Rats. Also all the big spiritual feeling I was feeling yesterday is gone. I don't feel God's presence, and I am getting all the distractions of the flesh as I am used to. Oh well. I expected this. I bet I won't always be able to be in God's presence even if I want to be. I will just pray for assistance from the holy spirit and get to work, doing what I believe to be God's will, hopefully I am not doing something stupid. And I will keep in mind, that in Him I have everything, I don't need anything. So let's just do what needs to be done, for kingdom come.

Now it's 7:17 am, I gotta hurry to work.