The only thing that matters is that I am solving problems. Anything that is not part of this should be irrelevant to me. And if I want to be focused, that means saying "No" to all those irrelevant things.

Now my intellectual mind might be clear on things. But ultimately this is about actions not ideas. And that requires the co-operation of the subconscious mind. Which is very much effected by many kinds of rewards and punishments.

While to my intellectual mind things are clear, that what is relevant and what is not, for my subconscious mind, it is working with something's completely different. Instincts affected by anything that rewards or punishes.

So because of this, now things are not just relevant or irrelevant, some things are good or bad, depending whether they influence me towards problem solving or not.

Of course, there is also the stoic path, where you can learn to disregard the punishments. Willing to accept the cost, eventually the pain stops affecting you. But when doing this you have to keep in mind to also learn to disregard things that reward you, otherwise without anything in the world capable of punishing you, there will be nothing that can stop you from being pulled into hedonism against your own interests. The stoic way is about throwing away the world's guard rails that keep you in line, and relying on your own understanding instead. But there might be gaps in your understanding, so something to keep in mind. Also, the world's guidance with reward and punishment is almost never optimal. So there's no optimal option here, except to just figure out the way ourselves. 

My intellectual mind is clear in what to pursue, and it is the subconscious that needs to be brought up to speed. So I must pay attention on each source of reward and punishment and note in what direction it stairs me, towards problem solving or not. I must avoid the ones that stir me away, but welcome and make more accessible or more frequent those experiences that stir me towards it.
So next step is list the sources of these influences, and categorise what is desirable and what is not: 

Desirable:
- Podcasts that feed into my desire for problem solving
- Music that help me focus on the task

Not Desirable:
- funny videos
- funny AI chatbots
- Valorant
- Clash of Clans
- Youtube videos that are entertaining or satisfy my curiosity
- Music that takes me away