2025-05-21
The aim of the story I wanna tell is to acquaint people with the thing that I have encountered in my upbringing (catholic missionary family). The thing that made me feel or think that the aim of this world is to pursue a kind of goodness, a holy goodness. That heaven and the triumph of good over evil is the ultimate destiny of this world. That there is advantage in loving people unconditionally, and even that that is the natural and proper thing to do. But as I grow older and I explore more of this world I realise that this is a very unnatural view of the world. If it wasn't for my upbringing I may never have come to think this way. It would appear that the world is not at all how I was taught it to be, that my worldview is just a fairy tale. But then no matter how idealistic my view is, there is something I have encountered. Something that felt absolutely living. I felt it gives substance to this worldview, a calm ray of light in the suffocating darkness. I am half afraid it's all hypothetical. That it's a placeholder, desperate invention of mine to balance my worldview against reality. But that's just the skeptic in me. I have definitely felt it, I wonder how subjectively, but I did experience it. And while I think this makes no difference to this universe whether we believed in this ray of light or not, it did make a lot of difference to us human beings. It gives us a direction to struggle towards in this otherwise meaningless existence. So it's real to us, maybe only to us humans, but I am speaking to humans aren't I?

So the aim of this story is to show you the existence of this light, maybe through it, you might at least discover that ray, the striking clue to the existence of something brighter. A pure, completely just and good source of light. Maybe the God in whom our souls yearn to take our rest.

Now mind you, I am not religious. I haven't found a reason to believe in God as an entity out there overseeing things. But just like how a bird knows to build a nest without going to bird school to learn from bird teachers, or how a bee knows to build a bee hive, I think "God", before all our definitions and conceptions of him, might be a known feeling in our subconscious. Something absolutely real and relevant to us.

Now of course there is the question if we truly have this inate awareness of this light, or was it just taught to me by my Catholic parents. I think there is a God shaped hole in our hearts, and my Catholic parents just taught me to fill it in. I believe most people just go without filling this in, especially since our immediate surroundings will often clash with it, if the filling is rudimentary. But honestly who knows, I might discover as I explore this that this ray of light was just a human invention after all and nothing innate or real about it. That we function just as well without it. In the end, I don't want to acquaint people with something made up, but something real. So I will try my utmost to be honest in my work.