2025-05-21
#### The stages of humanity's growth
1. I will begin with detailing the grandeur of the universe. It's vastness and marvels and how it has always been and was there before life started its game. It's the playground of life and I wanna show how amazing and terrifying it is. And how it is not concerned with life at all.
2. Some thrilling accounts of the early animals, how they fought tooth and nail to survive. How brutal and pure their life was. How they were not special and yet how desperate they were to live. How much pain pained them and yet how that didn't matter.
3. Some thrilling accounts of social animals. Bonds and connections and tribal rivalries. Brutal, simple and primal. Stories of those living beings born into that stage of the game. 
4. Dawn of intelligence. Yet so insignificant. The brutal life of early intelligent humans. Having traded physical process for a bigger brain. They use their intelligence as best they could to survive, yet it's barely enough. The predators with their claws and brawn, stealth and speed still seem like gods, impossible to surpass.
5. Dawn of language. When humans finally cracked the code. And started sensing the light for the first time. From simple ideas they gather their knowledge. Exploring, sharing, discussing, forming theories of the world. Imagining God's, monsters and myths, seeing the first glimpses of the light.
6. Language established. Now there are some humans fascinated with the light. Yearning to follow it to its source. But there was too much yet unknown, they succeed and fail spectacularly. But the first light-seekers have been born. They help their people navigate delicate situations. But they were hardly always right, and their theories were very human, inaccurate, but it had the essence of light in them. Living in tribes, their orientation is consolidated and clear. 
7. Societies. Language enable strangers to co-operate, enabling societies. Now the orientation or goal of their life is not so agreed upon. Different people had different wills and pursue different things, but the light-seekers seek the light. And they have to deal with other people not seeking the light.
8. Societies grow complex hierarchies. And so do their myths grow complex. Now the humans at the top of the hierarchy are in a completely different world compared to the ones at the bottom. Their myths grow distant. But light-seekers spawn at all levels and they shine their light in the chaos and nudge the myths closer to the light. There are also humans struggling to reconcile their primal side and their intelligent side. People encounter the light as they try to make sense of all of this.
9. At this point humans have conquered the world. But there are all kinds of destinies. Some humans never have to truly suffer. Some know only suffering. Some suffer not materially but endure incredible internal suffering. Others the opposite. Light-bearers again shine a light through all this, discovering the essence of light cutting through all destinies.
10. Then comes renaissance. A violent review of all myths and worldviews. Humans question their beliefs and discover science enabling incredible technological progress. But lack of beliefs undercut their orientation in the world and the thousands of years of light seeking myth making progress is thrown to the wayside. And humans learn painfully the difference between knowledge and wisdom.
11. A world with great technology but no spirituality. Humans fall to base level of animal, just with technology. In this spiritually dry world, light seekers bring in fire across the world in various societies in various ways, re birthing humanities quest to fulfill its destiny. Humanity also learns the folly of pleasure. The trap of complacency. The sweet trap, the struggle that doesn't feel noble. The need to abandon everything to focus on the light, because when you are too strong for the world to teach you lessons, you have to take the responsibility yourself. In times of abundance, how will you keep seeking the light? When a simple why seems powerful enough to stop you. You realise seeking the light is more important than success or wealth. And you willingly limit yourself, so you can see the light more clearly.
12. Dawn of ai and unfathomable technological progress. We are no longer the animals that were barely surving in the jungles. We are so powerful we don't even understand what we are anymore. And ai? What is it? Is it just a tool or a new being? Is it a God? What are the limits of humanity? Will we reach our limits of chasing the light? Will there be environments humans just can't endure and keep seeking the light? Will ai go further where no man can go and continue the game of life? Will it get closer to the light than any of us? Should we let it go? Should we abandon our humanness to transcend our limits? What is light at this point? Why keep chasing it when we can rewrite our souls? But light seekers will prevail. No matter what happens, staying true and seeking the light fulfills your destiny.

First, born as a naive simple animal, chasing it's basic instincts. No knowledge of the light and slowly discovering its surroundings. As a social animal it humanises a lot of things and sees intention everywhere but eventually starts become aware that there is more to this world than what the instincts suggest.

Note: I guess I should gather my own history of mankind, in various aspects. Culturally, spiritually, biologically, just plain events, technologically etc etc. Then I can combine them to get the skeleton of my story.

I just read the start of the book "Sapiens". From it I gather that at first we were just like other animals, nothing special or significant. We had our larger brains but it came at the cost of muscles and a bunch of other stuff. We lived in fear of nature, definitely not at the top of the food chain. And apparently our niche was getting the marrow out of the bones of carrion left by other predators. Our tools like pointy sticks and stones hardly gave us an edge over the other animals with their claws and strong muscles. But then we mastered fire and that was basically a superpower. We burnt sometimes entire forests and harvested the cooked remains of animals caught in the fire. We had our own source of warmth and could spend less time eating for the same amount of calories showing us to grow our brains further, since energy was a cap on our brain evolution before.
But the question is do I need to include things like this in the story? The point of the story is to give people an encounter with the light. But at the same time I do wanna show people the cruelty of reality and how it does not care about us. The light being more of a calling then an almighty God above protecting us. So I guess we can skip in the technicalities of our evolution and story except when it serves our aim to illustrate our story as beings called to pursue the light.

For this I do wanna tell a little story about our prehuman ancestors but I will have to first study them to know what kind of stories are possible in the first place.