The universe, vast and incredible. Stars of unfathomable sizes. Burning through unimaginable amounts of fuel. Asteroids colliding. Black holes forming, and then sucking in the giant stars. What an incredible place. And then something more incredible. Among the zillions of interesting things that were happening, as chance would have it, on a small planet with a cocktail of different things, a few small specks just so happened to find themselves arranged in a way that made them reproduce themselves. A structure creating itself. Life. And thus was born the game and the players that seek to become that perfect structure. That structure that is capable of braving all that reality can throw at it throughout time. The mere possibility of its existence shone through as a blinding light for all life that could sense it. After all it was the end goal of the game of life.
But at this time, in the beginning, the early living beings were limited in sense. They had no sense of the light and were just living, reproducing, dying and surviving.
Through small small changes they evolved to winning structure in the small environments they interacted with. But the more they won't, the more they explored. More of the world was discovered, which meant there was more evolving to do, to mirror that light, of the living structure that defined death.
Their journey was incredible. From learning how to use harvest energy from the sun to learning how to harvest the life force of other living things. They evolved and played the dance in ever increasing complexity. Oh the millions of stories of the many ways they discovered to keep playing the game. Some discovered camouflage, some learned to emit light, some grew fangs and claws, while others learned to wield poison. Some learned to co-operate with other of its own kind and even other kinds to survive together. Fascinating, fascinating 100s of stories of a game played for billions of years. Structures inevitably edging closer to the light, although unaware.
One of these adopted method that would open the door for a leap forward. Information processing, that is intelligence. Apes, just another animal, but some apes traded muscle and brawn for brain. The way other animals weilded physical process or poison or incredible agility, these apes weilded information processing and two incredible hands for molding the world to their will. They were by no means instant winners. They were preyed upon and lived in constant fear of predators. But they had internalised the game of life within themselves and the more they played, the faster they evolved. They were also social, multiple of them working together with each other. They evolved more and more effective ways of working with each other until they were the most effective and competent animal around. They set out to explore the world, braving all kinds of climates and all kinds of threats. Environments that other animals would need thousands of years to adapt to, these apes, they adapted in a few years because their mind could evolve so much faster.
They spread across the world and though successful they were not more successful than some other animals. Their bet on intelligence had paid off, but they were still just animals, preyed upon by predators and living in fear. Their bodies eventually adapted to the different environments they had settled in. Some growing smaller, some growing big. But then came the humans. Some of these apes cracked the wall of language. Sharing information. And then their power sky-rocketed. They formed plans, they discussed the various information each of them had sensed and shared it with each other, processed them together. Now they set off across the world and conquered every piece of the planet.